Add an initial policy for delisting unmaintained projects (#9731)
readthedocs/readthedocs.org: docs/user/unofficial-projects.rst

* Social media accounts associated with the project
* The project's primary repository -- README files, repository description, or source code

Unmaintained projects
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

A project is considered *unmaintained* when ALL of the following are met:

* The project is only serving content from releases and commits of a project over 6 months old

Reachability
~~~~~~~~~~~~

for matters concerning projects that the user owns.
In every case where contacting the user is necessary,
the core team will reach out using one of the following means of contact:

* E-mail address on file in the user's profile
* E-mail address on the GitHub user account where the project is pointed

The core team will stop trying to reach the user after 2 weeks and the user
will be considered *unreachable*.

Delisting of an abandoned project
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Projects that are determined to be *Unofficial* and *Unmaintained* will have a ``robots.txt`` file added that removes them from all search results.

Projects will be delisted when ALL of the following:

* The project has been determined *unmaintained* and *unofficial* by the rules described above

> * The candidate is able to demonstrate their own failed attempts to contact the

Reviewer: I guess `candidate` comes from Abandoned Projects policy where the idea is that we can free up a slug for someone that wants it.

Someone needs to request for an unofficial and unmaintained project to be delisted. Maybe "reporter" is a better word, since they are not really candidating for anything.

Reviewer: I also removed "their own", since there can perhaps be other ways.. such as a series of GitHub issues without response.

You can request that we delist an outdated, unmaintained documentation by contacting our :doc:`/support`.

Please include the following information:

.. code-block:: text

  URL of unofficial and unmaintained documentation project: ...
  URL of official documentation (if any): ...
  URL of official project website (if any): ...
  URL of official project repository (if any): ...

  Describe attempts of reaching the owner(s) of the documentation project:
  ...

Delisting
~~~~~~~~~

Projects that are determined to be unmaintained_ and unofficial_ will have a ``robots.txt`` file added that removes them from all search results:

.. code-block:: text

  # robots.txt
  User-agent: *
  # This project is delisted according to the Policy for Unofficial and Unmaintanied Projects
  # https://docs.readthedocs.io/en/stable/unofficial-projects.html
  Disallow: /

Projects will be delisted if they meet ALL of the following criteria:

* The person who submits the report of the unmaintained_ and unofficial_ project also demonstrates failed attempts to contact the existing owners.
* The project has been determined unmaintained_ and unofficial_ by the rules described above.

> * The project owners are notified by the Read the Docs team.
> * The core team does not have any additional reservations.
> * If any of the project owners respond, their response will be taken into account by the core team and it may be listed again if the criteria are met.

Author: The first and last item here are not criteria, they are process we are following. I think it's much clearer to break them out:

```suggestion
* The core team does not have any additional reservations.

The Read the Docs team will do the following actions when a project is delisted:

* Notify the Read the Docs project owners via email about the delisting.
* Add the ``robots.txt`` file to be served on the project domain.

If any of the project owners respond, their response will be taken into account, and the delisting might be reserved.
```

Policy for Unofficial and Outdated Projects
===========================================

This policy describes a process where we take actions against unmaintained_ and unofficial_ forks of project documentation.

Rationale
---------

Documentation projects may be kept online indefinitely, even though a newer version of the same project exists elsewhere.
There are many reasons this can happen,
including forks, old official docs that are unmaintained, and many other situations.

The problem with old, outdated docs is that users will find them in search results,
and get confused to the validity of them.
Projects will then get support requests from people who are using an old and incorrect documentation version.

> We have this policy to allow project maintainers to request the *delisting* of forks that are old and outdated.

Reviewer: I am quite okay about removing "maintainers". I think anyone can start this process and a request to remove something can always be taken into consideration. For instance, a user who has an extremely bad experience from reading the wrong documentation.

Also, removing this saves us the trouble of verifying if the person in question is a maintainer of said project.

Reviewer 2: I tend to agree here. I don't think it _must be one of the maintainers_ the ones that can request it.

Reviewer: We have a step now in our process (suggested by @agjohnson ) where we alert maintainers of the original project of any delistings made. While we could scratch that step since it doesn't affect any of the preceding actions, it seems like a nice gesture that is helpful to the overall community.

Reviewer 3: If it changes anything here, I was more concerned with contacting the maintainers of the project we're blocking from search.

It's probably going to be something like 95% of requests to delist a fork will indeed come from the actual maintainers of the repostory/package/etc, so we'll probably already have a line of communication open with them. If it is a community report though, I probably wouldn't feel much need to reach out to the maintainers of the official repo/project/package/etc.

Reviewer 3: So I suppose I also agree with the above, swapping "project maintainers" for something more generic.

Reviewer: > I was more concerned with contacting the maintainers of the project we're blocking from search.

Isn't that what the reachability step is about?

(but yes, I did add a suggestion of an ultimate step to inform the maintainers of the "original" project)

Reviewer: I'll try to introduce a definition of "source project", so in these cases we can refer to "source project maintainers".

Reviewer 3: > Isn't that what the reachability step is about?

I was describing skipping the reachability step with my comment here:

https://github.com/readthedocs/readthedocs.org/pull/9731#discussion_r1023171957

Reviewer: Now I understand https://github.com/readthedocs/readthedocs.org/pull/9731#discussion_r1023171957 much better. I think that defining the scenario for skipping reachability can be achieved. Probably it can be fixed by adding a definition of _when_ reachability is necessary or unnecessary (whichever definition is simplest).

For instance, in the case of an unofficial documentation project that has had significant efforts placed but is still unmaintained and unofficial? Like, if we can identify that a significant fraction of the documentation content is original, we should try to reach the documentation project's maintainer(s).

Author: > For instance, in the case of an unofficial documentation project that has had significant efforts placed but is still unmaintained and unofficial? Like, if we can identify that a significant fraction of the documentation content is original, we should try to reach the documentation project's maintainer(s).

Yea, if there is activity in the last 6 months presumably it's not unmaintained, and a bigger question.

Reviewer: I like that. It means that if an unofficial documentation set doesn't receive updates for 6 months and someone reports it for whatever reason, it means that it _can_ be unlisted. But its maintainers will also be notified. So at the end of the day, they may have a response that can make bring their efforts back to "maintained".

Reviewer: > So I suppose I also agree with the above, swapping "project maintainers" for something more generic.

I have now removed mentioning of "who" can request a delisting.

I didn't find more ambiguous mentioning of "maintainer". I changed all occurrences of "owner" with "owners", I believe we can define what an "owner" is -- it is most likely the entire maintainer team.

Examples
~~~~~~~~

Common cases covered by this policy are:

Outdated docs
    Documentation that is not being actively maintained or updated. This means for instance that the source project has updates that are not reflected in the documentation or a newer official documentation exists elsewhere on the internet.

Unofficial forks

>     Forks of a project documentation that are not linked to from the project in any way.

Author: Yea, seems like we're just defining it twice now.

>     Forks of a project documentation that are not linked to from the project in any way.

Reviewer: Removed :+1: I think it's better without it. Always nice to give examples, but I think the high-level is way better.

Unmaintained projects
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

A project is considered *unmaintained* when ANY of the following are met:

* The configured VCS repository is unreadable. This can happen if the repository is deleted, credentials are broken or the git host permanently unresponsive.
* The project is only serving content from releases and commits >6 months older than its source project (this happens with unmaintained forks).
* All builds have failed for >6 months.

Reachability
~~~~~~~~~~~~

In every case where contacting the user is necessary, the core team will reach out using one of the following means of contact:

* E-mail address on file in the user's profile
* E-mail address on the GitHub user account where the project is pointed

The core team will stop trying to reach the user after 3 weeks and the user will be considered *unreachable*.

Implementation
--------------

Delisting of an abandoned project
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Projects that are determined to be unmaintained_ and unofficial_ will have a ``robots.txt`` file added that removes them from all search results:

.. code-block:: text

  # robots.txt
  User-agent: *

>   Disallow: / # Delists everything

Reviewer: Added :arrow_up:  CC: @stsewd

Reviewer 2: I think we can include a note that this project is being delisted because someone has requested it by following the policy (and a link to it). What do you think?

Reviewer 2: A link to this policy is the only thing missing here.

Projects will be delisted when ALL of the following:

* The project has been determined unmaintained_ and unofficial_ by the rules described above.
* The person who submits the report of the unmaintained_ and unofficial_ project also demonstrates failed attempts to contact the existing owner.
* The project owner is unreachable_ by the Read the Docs team.
* The core team does not have any additional reservations.

Requesting a project be delisted
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

If you are the maintainer of a project,
you can request that we delist an outdated, unmaintained set of docs with our :doc:`/support`.

Please include the following information:

.. code-block:: text

  URL of unofficial and unmaintained documentation project: ...
  URL of official documentation (if any): ...
  URL of official source project website (if any): ...
  URL of official source project repository (if any): ...

  Describe attempts of reaching the owner of the documentation project:

>   ...

Reviewer: Added :arrow_up:

Author: This is great 👍 

Templates FTW

> Policy for Unofficial and Outdated Projects

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Policy for Unofficial and Unmaintained Projects
```

This policy describes a process where we take actions against unmaintained_ and unofficial_ forks of project documentation.

Rationale
---------

Documentation projects may be kept online indefinitely, even though a newer version of the same project exists elsewhere.
There are many reasons this can happen,
including forks, old official docs that are unmaintained, and many other situations.

The problem with old, outdated docs is that users will find them in search results,
and get confused to the validity of them.
Projects will then get support requests from people who are using an old and incorrect documentation version.

We have this policy to allow project maintainers to request the *delisting* of forks that are old and outdated.

Examples
~~~~~~~~

Common cases covered by this policy are:

Outdated docs
    Documentation that is not being actively maintained or updated. This means for instance that the source project has updates that are not reflected in the documentation or a newer official documentation exists elsewhere on the internet.

Unofficial forks
    Forks of a project documentation that are not linked to from the project in any way.

Specification

> -------------

Author: ```suggestion
-------------

High level overview
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The process at a high level looks like:

* A reporter emails us about a project they think is outdated and unofficial
* An RTD team member evaluates it to make sure it's outdated and unofficial, according to this policy
* We delist this project from search results and send an email to owners of the RTD project
* If a project owner objects, we evaluate their evidence and make a final decision
```

I wonder if a tl;dr is useful?

Reviewer: I think this looks useful, at the very least for the core team to grasp what is supposed to happen since the procedure might evolve to be a tad bit more confusing :+1:

Author: Yea, I also think users in general don't understand how the abandoned projects policy works. We probably need to rename that one in some fashion (eg. Policy for changing project slug?) since it's not obvious what the diff is between abandoned & unmaintained/unofficial.

Reviewer: That's a good point. Over-all they fit into some kind of category of "what can I do if I see a documentation project on RTD that I think should be moved/removed/unlisted". But I guess the best fit will be a "Policy" sub-level in our future "Reference" category. We just need to label them well.

"what can I do if I see a documentation project on RTD that I think should be moved/removed/unlisted?" might fit better in FAQ, albeit I feel some kind of temptation to advocate against FAQs because Diátaxis should provide us with the structure to avoid them :)

Unofficial projects
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

A project is considered *unofficial* when it is not linked to or mentioned in *any* of the following places:

* Websites and domains associated with the project

> * Social media accounts associated with the project

Author: This feels hard to define or check. Are we really going to figure out a projects social media?

Reviewer: If it means scrolling through their entire history of tweets and instas.... NO! :)

Reviewer: Removed SOME from the list.

Policy for Unofficial and Unmaintained Projects
===============================================

This policy describes a process where we take actions against unmaintained_ and unofficial_ forks of project documentation.

Rationale
---------

Documentation projects may be kept online indefinitely, even though a newer version of the same project exists elsewhere.
There are many reasons this can happen,
including forks, old official docs that are unmaintained, and many other situations.

The problem with old, outdated docs is that users will find them in search results,
and get confused to the validity of them.
Projects will then get support requests from people who are using an old and incorrect documentation version.

We have this policy to allow a reporter to request the *delisting* of forks that are old and outdated.

High level overview
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The process at a high level looks like:

> * A reporter emails us about a project they think is outdated and unofficial

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* A reporter contacts us about a project they think is outdated and unofficial
```

They can use email, our contact form or (maybe) github issues.

> * An RTD team member evaluates it to make sure it's outdated and unofficial, according to this policy

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* An Read the Docs team member evaluates it to make sure it's outdated and unofficial, according to this policy
```

> * We delist this project from search results and send an email to owners of the RTD project

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* We delist this project from search results and send an email to owners of the Read the Docs project
```

* If a project owner objects, we evaluate their evidence and make a final decision

Definitions
-----------

Source project
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

For a given documentation project to be assessed, the *source project* comes into question. This is defined as:

* The origin project from which the documentation project's repository was forked (if forked).
* The origin project from which the documentation project was copied (if not forked but evidently copied).
* The original project which the documentation project refers as the subject of documentation.

> * Any other project that is understood by the core team to be a the *source project*.

Reviewer: This is an added definition @agjohnson @ericholscher 

It could potentially be simplified. Reading through the definitions I find that this is a nice intro to talking about what "unofficial" means.

Reviewer 2: I'd say we could remove the "Source project" definition completely. I think it adds more confusion and clarification. Currently, we are only using "source project" in the email template, that can be just replaced by "official project" which is clearer in my opinion.

Reviewer: It's gone, by popular demand :smile:

Unofficial projects
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> A project is considered *unofficial* when it is not linked to or mentioned in *any* of the following places:

Author: ```suggestion
A project is considered *unofficial* when it is not linked to or mentioned in ANY of these places:
```

To keep it consistent with below

* Websites and domains associated with the project
* The project's primary repository -- README files, repository description, or source code

Unmaintained projects
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

A project is considered *unmaintained* when ANY of the following are met:

* The configured version control repository is unreadable. This can happen if the repository is deleted, credentials are broken or the Git host is permanently unresponsive.

> * The project is only serving content from releases and commits 6 months or older than its source repository.

Author: Source repository is ambugious here. I don't think we need to overly define old projects:

```suggestion
* The project is only serving content from releases and commits 6 months or older.
```

Reviewer 2: He, I'm suggesting removing the "source project" definition completely 😅

Reviewer: "Source repository" should be "source project repository" or just "source project".

There was an intention here: Many repositories don't receive updates for over 6 months without being "outdated". I think we should treat "outdated" in relation to something else. If the source project wasn't updated, neither, then having no updates for 6 months isn't "outdated", it's "in sync".

Reviewer 2: I think we are going to deep in minor details here. I don't think saying "The project is only serving content from releases and commits 6 months or older." conveys to any doubt about this. To me is clear enough.

In any case, we always will have the point "The core team does not have any additional reservations." in our favor if we need to clarify anything.

Reviewer: > I think we are going to deep in minor details here.

Just trying to be explicit rather than implicit :wink: I've removed it though. I hope y'all are fine about reading this again in 2 years and won't wonder about what the intention was.

* All builds have failed for more than 6 months.

> Reachability

Author: I feel like all of these definitions should probably live below the policy? This feels mostly uninteresting to me as a reporter, and like an implementation detail.

~~~~~~~~~~~~

In every case where contacting the user is necessary, the core team will reach out using one of the following means of contact:

* E-mail address on file in the user's profile
* E-mail address on the GitHub user account where the project is pointed

The core team will stop trying to reach the user after 3 weeks and the user will be considered *unreachable*.

Implementation
--------------

> Delisting of an abandoned project

Author: This whole section feels weird to me. I think we want the codeblock & actions we take to be in another section outside of the policy requirements for removal.

Reviewer: As @humitos commented, it should of course be "unofficial and unmaintained" in the headline.

I moved it down a section. In order for the core team to make note of these steps, I'd prefer to have them together with the policy. But it also adds clarity to anyone wondering what a "delisting" really means.

> Delisting of an abandoned project

Reviewer 2: This title shouldn't use the words "abandoned project" since that's a different policy. If any, it should say "unofficial and unmaintained"

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Projects that are determined to be unmaintained_ and unofficial_ will have a ``robots.txt`` file added that removes them from all search results:

.. code-block:: text

  # robots.txt
  User-agent: *
  # This project is delisted according to the Policy for Unofficial and Unmaintanied Projects
  # https://docs.readthedocs.io/en/stable/unofficial-projects.html
  Disallow: /

> Projects will be delisted if they meet *all* of the following criteria:

Author: We're using *all* here instead of ALL, like above. We should be consistent.

Reviewer: Fixed

Reviewer 3: Just a note, I changed this to be bold text in another section because using caps for emphasis is an a11y pattern to avoid, generally speaking. Capital letters can affect screen reader usage (some will output this as an acronym, not read it as a word) and all caps can negatively affect readers with dyslexia.

* https://accessibility.huit.harvard.edu/design-readability

Reviewer: Alright, changing

* The person who submits the report of the unmaintained_ and unofficial_ project also demonstrates failed attempts to contact the existing owners.
* The project has been determined unmaintained_ and unofficial_ by the rules described above.

> * The project owners is notified by the Read the Docs team.

Author: ```suggestion
* The project owners are notified by the Read the Docs team.
```
This is odd wording. I feel like we want to say this is an outcome of the policy, not a requirement for moving forward.

* The core team does not have any additional reservations.

> * If the project owners are unreachable_ by the Read the Docs team, no further action is taken.

Author: What does this mean? Is it the same as the one I commented on above?

Reviewer: This now removed :+1:

> * If the any of the project owners respond, their response will be taken into account by the core team and it may be listed again if the criteria are met.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* If any of the project owners respond, their response will be taken into account by the core team and it may be listed again if the criteria are met.
```

Requesting a project be delisted
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> You can request that we delist an outdated, unmaintained documentation with our :doc:`/support`.

Author: ```suggestion
You can request that we delist an outdated, unmaintained documentation by contacting our :doc:`/support`.
```

Please include the following information:

.. code-block:: text

  URL of unofficial and unmaintained documentation project: ...
  URL of official documentation (if any): ...

>   URL of official source project website (if any): ...
>   URL of official source project repository (if any): ...

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  URL of official project website (if any): ...
  URL of official project repository (if any): ...
```

  Describe attempts of reaching the owner(s) of the documentation project:
  ...

Thinking behind the policy
--------------------------

The main idea behind this policy is that Read the Docs serves the community.

> Every user is invited to upload content under the Terms of Use,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Every user is invited to upload content under the `Terms of Use <>`_,
```

We should add a link to this page.

Specification
-------------

The main idea behind this policy is that Read the Docs serves the community. Every
user is invited to upload content under the Terms of Use, understanding that it
is at the sole risk of the user.

While Read the Docs is not a backup service, the core team of Read the Docs does their best to keep that
content accessible indefinitely in its published form. However, in certain
edge cases the greater community's needs might outweigh the individual's
expectation of continued publishing.

The use cases covered by this policy are:

Outdated docs
    Documentation that is not being actively maintained or updated.

Unofficial forks
    Forks of a project documentation that are not linked to from the project in any way.

Implementation
--------------

Unofficial projects
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

A project is considered *unofficial* when ALL of the following are met:

* It is not hosted on an official domain of the project
* It is not linked from the project's README, description, or source code

Unmaintained projects
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

A project is considered *unmaintained* when ALL of the following are met:

> * The project is only serving content from releases and commits of a project over 6 months old

Author: This is the main interesting part, along with the `Delisting` section.

Policy for Unofficial and Outdated Projects
===========================================

> This policy describes a process where we take actions against unmaintained and unofficial forks of project documentation.

Reviewer: Should we specify that this is about (software) projects with versioned release cycles?

There are types of documentation projects, especially single version projects, that are a tutorial, a book etc.

Reviewer 2: As long as the policy enforces "reachability" and only works "under requests", I think it's fine.

Also, I liked that Eric added: "The core team does not have any additional reservations.", to one of the points that must happen, so we are covering these cases there as well.

> This policy describes a process where we take actions against unmaintained and unofficial forks of project documentation.

Reviewer: Can the term "source project" be of use if it's defined?

```suggestion
This policy describes a process where we take actions against unmaintained and unofficial forks of project documentation.
Typically, these documentation projects describe a software project with versioned release cycles, but they can also be books or tutorials. Therefore, we refer to whatever source repository which the documentation project is connected to as the _source project_.
```

That can probably be shortened.

> This policy describes a process where we take actions against unmaintained and unofficial forks of project documentation.

Reviewer 2: Add links to the sections of this page that explains these concepts. Also, it could go one step further and use the glossary as well.

```suggestion
This policy describes a process where we take actions against unmaintained_ and unofficial_ forks of project documentation.

.. _unmaintained: #unmaintained-projects
.. _unofficial: #unofficial-projects
```

Reviewer: Good change, it's important that we are using words signalling that they have a definition, and the link helps accomplish this :+1: 

But I think it's problematic if the reader has to leave this article to understand the meaning of its 2 most central terms, so I don't think they should exist in the Glossary :) However, imagining a future where these definitions work with sphinx-hoverxref or some other inclusion method, that'd be cool for legal and academic writing :+1:

Reviewer 2: > imagining a future where these definitions work with sphinx-hoverxref or some other inclusion method, that'd be cool for legal and academic writing

They already work, that's the point. Not having to jump into another page 😄 

![Screenshot_2022-11-16_12-12-23](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/244656/202165746-043352d0-933f-4d10-a755-ba739a2c1d1d.png)

However, my proposal here is link to the section inside the same page. We have titles for "Unmaintained projects" and "Unofficial projects" in this page

Rationale
---------

> There is often the case where a set of documentation has been built,
> and it is kept online but grows outdated over time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Documentation projects may be kept online indefinitely, even though a newer version of the same project exists elsewhere.
```

There are many reasons this can happen,

> including forks, old official docs that are unmaintained, and many other situations.

Reviewer: Should "old official docs that are unmaintained" be kept if they're the only docs that exist and if the software project is just as old and unmaintained?

Reviewer 2: If I understand correctly, the official and _unofficial_ documentation will be keep. However, the _unofficial_ will be de-listed via `robots.txt`. I don't think the policy mentions deleting the unofficial docs.

Reviewer: I think that we also now have a definition of unmaintained that makes more sense - it's not that no one has updated the documentation for a long time... it's that the actual software project has been updated beyond what is reflected in the documentation.

The problem with old, outdated docs is that users will find them in Google,
and get confused to the validity of them.
Projects will then get support requests from people who are using an old and incorrect documentation version.

We have this policy to allow project maintainers to request the *delisting* of forks that are old and outdated.

Specification
-------------
The use cases covered by this policy are:

Outdated docs

>     Documentation that is not being actively maintained or updated.

Reviewer: I think this definition should include that an updated and official version of the same source project exists somewhere else on the internet?

Unofficial forks
    Forks of a project documentation that are not linked to from the project in any way.

Implementation

> --------------

Reviewer 2: I'd put "Unofficial projects" and "Unmaintained projects" sections under "Definitions" or similar and leave "Implementation" for the rest that explain "how it works" and "what's the process" to achieve it.

Reviewer: This is now moved :+1:

Unofficial projects
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

A project is considered *unofficial* when ALL of the following are met:

* It is not hosted on an official domain of the project

> * It is not linked from the project's README, description, or source code

Reviewer 3: Also, is it worth mentioning projects that have a forked repository?

This isn't always true, but it is a pattern that we've noticed -- projects forking the repository and connecting that to RTD.

> * It is not linked from the project's README, description, or source code

Reviewer: I notice that pattern, too. They might also be caught by abandoned or unmaintained definitions.

Unmaintained projects
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

A project is considered *unmaintained* when ALL of the following are met:

* The project is only serving content from releases and commits of a project over 6 months old

Reachability
~~~~~~~~~~~~

> for matters concerning projects that the user owns.

Reviewer 2: It seems there is a sentence missing before this one.

Reviewer: I think the text reads fine without this. So perhaps it was a sentence too much :)

> for matters concerning projects that the user owns.
> In every case where contacting the user is necessary,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If one or more maintainers of the documentation project also own or maintain the source project of the documentation,
```

Reviewer: I guess wrong.

the core team will reach out using one of the following means of contact:

* E-mail address on file in the user's profile
* E-mail address on the GitHub user account where the project is pointed

The core team will stop trying to reach the user after 2 weeks and the user

> will be considered *unreachable*.

Reviewer 4: I remember @benjaoming mentioning in another thread about people going on vacation and not being able to reply, which is usually 2 weeks, so maybe increase this to 3 weeks?

Reviewer 3: This is a good point about time frame. I'd probably match our abandoned project policy at 6 weeks even.

I'm also +1 on flipping this policy to be more reactive.

What I would like out of this policy is to be able to take immediate action on a project and be done with the process (in almost all cases). Given we're only talking about blocking the `robots.txt` file to avoid indexing a project, this seems doable.

That is, I'm hoping for a process where we:

- Receive a request about a project
- We determine the verification status of the project in question
- If the project fails verification, we block indexing for the project
- We notify the maintainers about the change we made
- We should never get a negative response from the maintainers of the project in question, but if we do we can review the change

This would compliment the abandoned project policy, but would still allow us to make an immediate change, and we don't have to worry about multiple rounds of follow up.

Reviewer: I kind of like 3 weeks more... it means that we can always decide to wait for longer in cases where it would seem more important to reach the project owner.

Reviewer 3: > I assume that you mean maintainers of the official project?

I was describing contacting the maintainers of the unofficial project, to let them know we've determined their project is unofficial and we've altered their project's robots.txt

> By "verification status" did you mean deciding the questions of "unofficial" and "unmaintained"?

Yeah correct -- however we want to refer to that internally :+1:, perhaps verification sounds rather official.

Author: Yea, I was leaning this direction when I originally wrote it as well. I think delisting it with a notification is a reasonable policy here. Given that we aren't taking an unreversable action, if they get back to us within a couple days almost nothing will have changed. 

I'm +1 on delisting with notification, instead of a waiting period.

Reviewer: Roger and agree :+1: Will implement :hourglass_flowing_sand:

Reviewer: Implemented a proposal for this. Please have a look at the new steps.

Delisting of an abandoned project
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> Projects that are determined to be *Unofficial* and *Unmaintained* will have a ``robots.txt`` file added that removes them from all search results.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Projects that are determined to be *Unofficial* or *Unmaintained* will have a ``robots.txt`` file added that removes them from all search results.
```

Should his be an OR here?

Unofficial but "maintained" (list new commits) is probably also a good candidate to be delisted, right?

Reviewer 2: Hrm.... maybe not 🤔 . Unofficial and maintained docs are still good docs 😄

Reviewer: Yes, I think that the _and_ is intentional and would be the best effect. As you say, "unofficial and maintained" can be very good.. there are many unofficial tutorials :)

> Projects that are determined to be *Unofficial* and *Unmaintained* will have a ``robots.txt`` file added that removes them from all search results.

Reviewer 4: Maybe we should put the content of the robots.txt here. And looks like we would need to implement that before releasing this policy.

Reviewer: This is now added, although I'm unsure about how we actually add this file as admins. We can talk about that later, but please have a look at the suggestion, it's pretty basic :)

Unmaintained projects
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

A project is considered *unmaintained* when ANY of the following are met:

* The configured VCS repository is unreadable. This can happen if the repository is deleted, credentials are broken or the git host permanently unresponsive.
* The project is only serving content from releases and commits >6 months older than its source project (this happens with unmaintained forks).
* All builds have failed for >6 months.

Reachability
~~~~~~~~~~~~

In every case where contacting the user is necessary, the core team will reach out using one of the following means of contact:

* E-mail address on file in the user's profile
* E-mail address on the GitHub user account where the project is pointed

The core team will stop trying to reach the user after 3 weeks and the user will be considered *unreachable*.

Implementation
--------------

Delisting of an abandoned project
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Projects that are determined to be unmaintained_ and unofficial_ will have a ``robots.txt`` file added that removes them from all search results:

.. code-block:: text

  # robots.txt
  User-agent: *

>   Disallow: / # This project is delisted according to the Policy for Unofficial and Unmaintanied Projects

Author: A link here is probably useful.

Reviewer: Done :+1:

Projects will be delisted when ALL of the following:

* The person who submits the report of the unmaintained_ and unofficial_ project also demonstrates failed attempts to contact the existing owner.
* The project has been determined unmaintained_ and unofficial_ by the rules described above.
* The project owner is unreachable_ by the Read the Docs team.
* The core team does not have any additional reservations.

> * The core team notifies the source project's maintainers about changes made

Author: What is `source project` here? This feels a bit odd to me. Are we just going from the repo linked on the RTD Project?

Reviewer 2: I'm confused about this as well.

I think it references to what @agjohnson said in https://github.com/readthedocs/readthedocs.org/pull/9731#discussion_r1023171957. However, in that comment he proposes to "remove reachability" as a mandatory step. Otherwise, it doesn't make sense to me to "notifies the maintainers again" if we already weren't able to reach them

Reviewer: I liked writing "source project" in several draft texts. I will add a suggestion for a definition. I think it's useful to be refer to the project which the "unofficial documentation" is documenting. It needs a good term to not confuse the reader.

Reviewer 3: I'd agree, "source project" is mixing a few terms. If we're talking about project on RTD, I'll refer to that as "project", but if we are talking about something outside RTD, I'll try to avoid the word "project" and use something more accurate -- GitHub _repository_, PyPI _package_, etc. It is confusing to reference though, there isn't a great term that fits everything here.

Also, if it changes this discussion, I was referring to contacting the maintainer(s) of the unofficial project, and contacting them _after_ we made the change to their project -- I posted more here: https://github.com/readthedocs/readthedocs.org/pull/9731#discussion_r1025570160

Reviewer 3: > However, in that comment he proposes to "remove reachability" as a mandatory step.

Reading the whole bullet list in review now, and to clarify: if we want a reactive policy, we don't want there to be a 2/3/6 week waiting period for contact. From the abandoned project policy, we almost never get a response at this step.

This policy differs from the abandoned policy in that when someone reaches out about an unofficial fork, those docs are actively causing confusion for users. So, in this case, a reactive policy could resolve the issue more immediately than the abandoned project policy (usually always waiting 6 weeks). Other outlets in the past have been attempted DMCA takedowns on these projects, which doesn't quite work with open source forked code.

But if we feel this is too aggressive, I don't have issues otherwise with requiring contact first. I don't feel it's important to contact official maintainers if they aren't the reporting party though.

Reviewer: @agjohnson can you give a more precise list of definitions? I would like something that can match these two candidates:

* Reported documentation project: In this policy, a project is reported as unofficial and unmaintained. We simply refer to this as "the project".
* Source project: The _reported documentation project_ documents another project, typically a software project. In most cases, this software project already has another documentation project elsewhere. The source project is the main subject of documentation.

Reviewer 3: "Source project" is probably clearer as "official repository" or "official project" if there are no other terms available. Either way, we can likely skip mention here, as we're only planning on reaching out to the maintainers of the unofficial RTD project.

Author: Yea, I'm not really sure why we're talking about the official project at all? Notifying them seems like it would just be spam.

Reviewer: The procedure to notify "official" or "upstream" project has been removed. It remains at the discretion of the ones implementing the delisting :+1:
